---
layout: post
title:  "Not being super talented, helped me grow as a persistent person"
date:   2016-08-21 08:30:00 +0600
categories: personal
permalink: /blogs/:title
lang: english
post_id: 2
---

Though I have some technical posts in my drafts, I want my first post to have some personal touch, thus this post. I took  my first glimpse of a programming code in my very first week at [IIUC](https://www.iiuc.ac.bd/), while doing my Bsc in EEE. 10 years later, I am working as a Full-stack web application developer. I think documenting how I started my journey as a programmer will be an interesting one.

I enrolled in EEE, and I was not very pleased to see the _CSE-101_ listed in my class routine in our very first semester. Like a lot of my classmates, I was all pumped up to finish my curriculum and rushed to secure a job in the telecommunication sector. We didn't think taking a computer science course will help us become a good telecom engineer. So when the _CSE-101_ class time appeared, I was more interested in skipping the class, and join my new (wise and like minded !!) classmates. But just as I was about to leave the class, our teacher came. It was our head of the department, *Muhammad Shamsul Alam* sir. Because I was personally acquainted with him, I couldn't get out of the class. But I never would've guessed that day, that through this class, I am about to find my greatest passion till to date.

Finding something interesting is one thing, but to make it your passion you need to be in love with it. I liked what I was studying in my class. Alam sir had a very strong personality, and he really knew how to teach structure language. But later that week in our lab class we got introduced to one of his TA, *Mobashwir Hasan* (Shakil Vai). He made a big impact on me about programming. He has his own ways of presenting problems or explaining programming syntax. I remember he used to encourage us to solve the same problem using different technics, which I did find interesting these days, and I end up spending a lot more time coding. Problem-solving using programming was something very new to me, and combinedly Shakil Vai and Alam sir help me to set a foot on it. I believe it was them who put the _Mindset_ of a programmer in me. After six months my *interest* in programming turned into my *passion*.

In our university, there was a special class called _ACM Class_. It was for those who wanted to nurture their programming ability and participate in various programming contests. After my first semester, I started to take these class. But it was not easy for me. A lot of the ACM problems are based on various algorithms and technics which comes with CS curriculum. As I was from a different department, I had to make additional time to study and understand these algorithms.

I am not a super talented person. I was a medium quality student. Grasping these technics and algorithms didn't come easily to me. Sometimes it took months to completely understand and practice related problems of a single algorithm. When exams appeared I had to take a break from that. There were several highly talented contestant in our class. My  progress compares to them was very frustrating to me. But, despite being not good at it, I always somehow ended up repeatedly trying to improve myself at ACM programming. Later in my life, sometimes I ask myself what made me do that back then? And I think it was because of that genuine passion, rooted inside of me during my first semester, for problem-solving. I was not very successful at ACM, though I manage to participate in a lot of NCPC and couple of ICPC Dhaka regional.

Later in my life, when I started my career as a software engineer, all of the ACM experience somehow appear as nothing but beneficial. Firstly, The attitude of problem-solving. It is one of the best things I have ever achieved through my participations in ACM. Secondly, the ability to try. I rarely stop until I find a solution to a problem. Finally, I never fear to try something new. In fact, learning something new excite me most. In my six years of experience as a software developer, I have learned 3 different languages to ship production level applications. With each of these languages come several frameworks and there are a uncountable number of other libraries, APIs, and front-end tools. Exploring unknown stack and tools come easy after my ACM experience.

Fortunately, in my career, I have had the pleasure of working with some awesome teams on some very good projects. Someone are more intelligent than others. Some can grab a logic quickly, someone takes a little bit more time.  But one thing I can tell no matter how people are, *hard work* is something that beats all.
